Info about statistics cron job removal (#1658)
theforeman/theforeman.org: plugins/foreman_statistics/1.0/index.md

#robots: noindex
---

# 1. {{ page.title }}

This plugin enables Foreman to show a nice statistics dashboard and create Trend charts.

## 1.1 Release notes

### Drop the cron job

> Foreman statistics 1.0 onwards automates data collection and no manual steps are required.

Reviewer: I guess it's using dynflow, but might be good to explicitly mention that.

> Foreman statistics 1.0 onwards automates data collection by facilitating a dynflow processing engine and no manual steps are required.

Reviewer: I'm wondering if we need to mention the version. Versions prior to 1.0 weren't really shipped to users.
```suggestion
Foreman statistics moves trend calculation from a cronjob to a Dynflow job and no manual steps are required.
```

> If you've set a cron job to execut `foreman-rake trends:counter` manually in the past, please remove it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you've set a cron job to execute `foreman-rake trends:counter` manually in the past, please remove it.
```

> Users upgrading from older versions should ensure to remove any cronjobs that call `foreman-rake trends:counter`.

Reviewer: Older versions may imply older versions of the plugin. May be call out that it was in core prior to Foreman 2.3?

Author: reworded to `from Foreman 2.2 and older`

> Users upgrading from Foreman 2.2 and older versions should ensure to remove any cronjobs that call `foreman-rake trends:counter`.

Reviewer 2: This should also be mentioned in the 2.2 upgrade warning - if they are removing the plugin they should make sure to clean up the cronjob

Author: done

> If you've set a cron job to execute `foreman-rake trends:counter` manually in the past, please remove it.

Reviewer: Previously it was shipped in foreman itself. If users modified the cronjob, a yum update will not update it either. So even if they didn't modify the trends counter explicitly, they still need to look. So I'd phrase it a bit more open.
```suggestion
Users upgrading from older versions should ensure to remove any cronjobs that call `foreman-rake trends:counter`.
```

## 3.1 Trends

> Trends in Foreman allow you to track changes in your infrastructure over time. It allows you to track both Foreman related information and any facts. The Trend pages give a graph of how the number of hosts with that value have changed over time, and the current hosts list.

Reviewer: I've read it's good practice to keep it impersonal
```suggestion
Trends in Foreman allow tracking changes in your infrastructure over time. It allows tracking both Foreman related information and any facts. The Trend pages give a graph of how the number of hosts have changed over time, and the current hosts list.
```

Author: :+1: sounds better, thanks!

> There are two pieces to the Trends area, the Trends to track and their corresponding counters. To define trend counters, use the "Add Trend Counter" button on the '/foreman_statistics/trends' page. Optionally set the "Name" field to over-ride odd fact names to be more readable. Once created you can optionally 'Edit' the Trend to change the display names of the underlying values.

Reviewer: Usually we don't give paths of URLs. Perhaps it should refer to it as a page title, like Trends Overview page?

Author: What about menu reference `Monitor > Trends`?
